[MUSIC PLAYING]
ELLIOTT MARQUEZ: Hey there,
Polycasters, I'm Elliott.
Welcome back to
our series on how
to build an element
in Polymer 2.
Last time, we used pre-made
elements and styling
to make our element look
great, but the checklist
doesn't really work yet.
If we take a look, pressing
the Add Task button
doesn't really add tasks.
So let's make that work.
So when we click
the Paper button,
we want something to happen.
And what you want to do
is add a click listener.
So Polymer has a
nice way to do this.
If you look again in
your dependencies,
go into the Polymer
directory, back into Lib,
but in the Utilities
section, you'll
see something called
gestures.html.
Gestures.html allows you
to add a bunch of listeners
to user actions, like tapping,
clicking, or dragging,
and in this case, we want
to add a click listener.
So let's import that.
So Polymer, Polymer Directory
in the Lib, but it's in Utils
and it's called gestures.html.
Cool.
Gestures.html allows
us to add listeners
to the events like this.
You'd type in "on-" and then
the type of event that is
happening.
So on-click.
And on each click, we're going
to call the method addTask.
All right.
But now we have
to create addTask.
So here, we'll go into our
Polymer Checklist class
and create a addTask method.
All right.
So in the addTask method,
what we're going to do
is add to our task list.
Our task list, currently, is
one, two, three, four, five.
We'll make that empty for now.
And let's define a new task.
So const new task.
And for now, we'll make
it an empty object.
And then we will add
that to the task list.
So in normal JavaScript,
you would simply just
push onto a variable.
You would do that by doing this.
You'd select the tasks
list, which in Polymer, you
can select a property
by doing this dot, then
the name of the property.
So this.tasks.
And then, in JavaScript, you
would just do dot push and then
the new value.
A new task.
The problem with this is the
Polymer data binding system
doesn't necessarily
know when you
want to update the template.
So here, we're going to do
something a bit different.
We're going to call the
this.push method, which
is defined by
Polymer, then give it
the name of the property
that you want to push to,
which is Tasks, and then
push the new task value.
Now let's define what
goes inside of our task.
So each task has about
two things in it.
It has a checkbox and an input.
And we're going to need two
properties to define this.
So let's say the
name of the task.
For now, we'll leave
that as an empty string.
And then whether it's
completed or not.
And we can do that
with a completed value.
And for now, we'll
say it's false
because you're
creating a new task,
so I don't think it's
going to be finished.
Let's go refresh and
let's add a few tasks.
Oh.
All right.
We're creating tasks now.
We just have something
wrong with our data binding.
Let's go change that right now.
So now let's go back
to our dom-repeat.
In the dom-repeat, you'll
see that we're actually
just passing in the task
to the paper input, which
is now an object.
So actually, we want to
pass in the name into here--
task.name-- and then
in the paper checkbox,
we want to see if it's checked.
And to that, we want to data
bind whether it's completed.
Task.completed.
I can't type.
Completed.
Let's go refresh.
All right.
That's starting to
look a bit better.
Let's see if our data
binding is actually working.
So we'll go down here and
we'll change Completed to True
and we'll add a test name.
Refresh.
Add Task.
And there you go.
It's checked and the
value's in there.
All right.
So now let's go reset this
back to an empty string.
Set this to False.
And that's good.
So now that we have this
going, when you check things,
it doesn't seem to go into
the Completed section.
So let's go change
that right now.
So what we want to do
is we want to first
get rid of the things that
are in the To-Do section
when they are checked.
So if you mouse over
dom-repeat, you'll
see a bit more documentation,
and at the bottom,
you'll see something about
filters and observing.
So let's type in
the Filter property.
And you'll see that the
Polymer IDE tells you
that it takes a function
and this function
is used to filter an
array that is passed in,
the array being the Tasks array.
So we'll filter with a function
called Is Not Completed.
And then we'll define the
Is Not Completed function--
is not completed--
and it will pass in a task.
The way the dom-repeat
filter function works
is the same way as an
array.filter works.
You pass in a
function that returns
a Boolean, true or
false, that, if true,
will include the current
task in the array,
and if false, will exclude it.
So in the Is Not
Completed function,
we will return
NotTask.Completed,
so it will be the
opposite of completed.
And then one more
thing is that we have
to add the Observe property.
The Observe property
is a string that
tells the data
binding system when
to recalculate this filter.
And we want to recalculate this
filter whenever task.completed
is changed.
So we'll save that,
go over, refresh.
We'll add a few tasks.
We'll call this Hello, Polycast,
and we'll leave that one empty.
And if you check
one, it disappears.
It's getting filtered out.
Cool.
Only one step left.
Add them to the
Completed section.
So here we have our To-Do,
the Add Completed stuff,
which as you saw earlier,
looks very much the same
as it did to the To-Do section.
So we'll just copy this,
paste it right over,
and fix the tabbing.
All right.
So the Completed section is
basically the exact opposite
of the To-Do section.
So what we have to do
is remove this filter
and make it Is Completed
rather than Is Not Completed.
So here, we'll define
it, Is Completed.
Takes a new task, and then
it just returns the opposite
of Is Not Completed.
So task return, task.completed.
Save that.
Give that a refresh.
Add a few things.
Hello, world.
Click that.
And there you go.
We have a functioning checklist.
All right.
Now how do you actually
use this checklist element?
So if you look back
in our demo directory,
you'll see that we have a
Polycast checklist-- an element
that we just defined.
So you can actually just
copy this multiple times.
You can make as
many as you want.
Let's make a bunch of checklists
because we're such busy people.
And here you go.
That's a lot of different
stuff on the page.
Let's scale it back a bit.
Let's add a quick title to this.
So we'll add an H2 title
and we'll call this Name,
and this will be the
name of the checklist.
So creating a property
should be pretty quick.
Name.
Type is a string.
And the value-- this will
be the default value.
We'll call this To-Do List.
Cool.
Let's refresh.
Now we have To-Do List up here.
It's data bound in there.
And then we can change the demo.
Woop, didn't mean to close that.
We can change the demo
and change the name.
Name, we'll call
this Shopping List.
All right.
So now let's test out
that this actually works.
Here, you can add a few tasks.
We can add tasks to
create a shopping list,
finish the Polycast.
And add a few tasks over here.
Add some tomatoes,
add some lettuce.
Check, check.
And it looks like it works.
And the nice thing about
having a Polymer element
is that you could just
import the element
and put it on your page
and then you're done.
Great.
That completes this
tutorial on how
to build an element
in Polymer 2.
For more tutorials, you
can go to the Start section
of the Polymer Project site,
which I'll link down below.
If you have any questions or
ideas for future Polycasts,
leave us a comment on this video
or tweet us at #AskPolymer.
See you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]